Biological continuity provides
us with a second idea.
about what personal identity
could consist in.
The starting point is very
simple. You and I are
biological organisms.
A very natural thought, therefore,
is that our identity through
time is just the identity of any
other biological organism.
So it's biological continuity
rather than, say, psychological
continuity. That provides us
with the key to understanding
personal identity. Or is it?
Well, let's see what the view
says first. Here's a way of
putting the view that I think is
captures the core idea. Now, of
course there are going to be
lots of variations on this. Lots
of details to workout. But this is the
core idea. Necessarily a person
existing at one time is a thing
existing at another time if and
only if the first mentioned
person’s biological organism is
continuous with the second thing's
biological organism. You have a
person at one time, a thing at
another time. This one's
biological organism. This one's
biological organism. If the
biological organisms are the
same, then you've got one person.
If their biological organisms
are distinct, you've got two
people. Very simple idea. I
think it's natural and very
compelling. But I want to tell
you a story that gives us an
interesting result. So here's
the story. Tom and Ayesha
swapped brains for just one
day, right? They were just
curious, what would it be like
to inhabit your body? I sort of
film recently called your name
Fabulous Film, and that also
involves something a little bit
like this. And if you haven't
seen the film your name, you
should definitely watch it.
On that day, the day they
swapped bodies of person, we're
going to call Ayesha-body Rob the
bank. As night falls, Tom and
Ayesha swap brains back as they'd
agreed to do. Now I want to know
who is morally responsible for
the bank robbery.
Is it Tom? Is it Ayesha or is it
neither of them? And just
give yourself 90 seconds and
have think about how you
would answer that question.
Ideally talking to your
lecture streaming partner.
So which? Who is it? If anybody
who is responsible for robbing
the bank go?
So again, I'm really curious
about what you're thinking here.
Unfortunately, it's not possible
now to have a little bit of
discussion, but if you've
provided the answer in writing,
I'll surely be taking a look at
that and thinking about what
people think. So my guess based
on having asked this question to
students before, is that plenty
of people are going to think
that Tom is morally responsible
for the bank robbery. I think he
kind of played a nasty trick on
a she was like oh, let me borrow
your body, I want to
see what it's like. Probably
didn't tell her that he was
going to rob a bank in it and
get her into kinds of trouble.
So my sense is that Tom is
morally responsible for the bank
robbery. I also think that
you're only responsible for
actions performed by things that
are numerically identical with
you. It's very tempting idea. After all,
classic defense would be to say
it wasn't me.
It wasn't me. So if you say to
me ‘Steve, did you rub the bank?’
I can say ‘look, it wasn't me.
The thing which robbed the bank
was distinct from me, it wasn't
numerically identical with me.’
That seems like a watertight
defence. OK, but if that's
right, put those two things
together.
It follows that Tom was Ayesha
body. Do you see that it's just
a matter of logic from those
first two things? If Tom is
morally responsible for it? And.
You're only responsible for
things that you know for the
actions of things that your
numerical identically.
If Tom was responsible for the
bank robbery. And if you're only
responsible things that your
numerically identical with, then
you have to be.
I sure body no way out of it
told me where I should body, but
here's the interesting thing
Tom's biological Organism is not
continuous with Ayesha-body’s
biological organism, right? All
that happened was we had an
organ transplant. Now there's
some faffing around to do here
about you know if you transplant
brains is that somehow really
the essence of biological
continuity? But look when you
think about that carefully,
you're going to discover that
Tom's biological organism is
just not continuous with
Ayesha-body’s biological organism.
It
follows that the biological
continuity view of personal
identity is false, so here's an
interesting thought. On the one
hand, the biological continuity
view, super plausable, very
natural. At first glance, on
the other hand, if you want to
accept that view, you've gotta
reject one of these premises.
Here you gotta reject either
the idea that Tom is morally
responsible for the bank
robbery. I think it's hard to
do, or you've got to reject
the idea that you're only
responsible for actions
performed by things
numerically identical with
you.
Maybe that's the one that has to
go here. If you believe in this
biological continuity view.
So just at this point in the
course, we've reached a really
interesting point. If you take
biological continuity views, you
run into the problem with Tom in
Ayesha that I've just been
outlining the bank robbery
problem that gives us the
inconsistent triad on the right
of your screen. On the other
hand, if you take the
psychological continuity view,
what we saw when we looked at
that. Do look at that. If you
haven't looked at it yet, is
that there's another
inconsistent triad which that
view faces. Here, it looks like
if you want to hold under
psychological continuity, you
gotta reject the idea that
anybody who is a person has ever
been an embryo. Or could ever
enter a permanent vegetative
state. So the psychological
continuity and the biological
continuity views have
complementary difficult to solve
problems, problems that we can
formulate and get a clear idea
on by constructing inconsistent
triads. In order to defend
one another of those, use. If
you think that's the right
thing to do, you have to give
a convincing justification
for rejecting one or another
claims from the relevant
inconsistent triad.
It's clear now super clear very
important you really gotta get
this, if you haven't got this
just spend a while, thinking
about it 'cause it's really the
beginnings to thinking seriously
about personal identity. If you
want to defend either of these
views. Psychological continuity
on the left.
Biological continuity on the
right. You have to be able to
give good reasons. For rejecting
one part of at least one part of
the relevant inconsistent triad.
Without that, you're not in the
business of thinking seriously
about personal identity at all.
OK, so where are we?
We've been thinking about
personal identity and we found
that there are seemingly
difficult problems to both
views. The next thing we might
think about is whether or not we
should accept these views,
whether there's some
alternative. Or whether indeed
we can defend one of these views
by rejecting part of the
inconsistent triad. Thank you
very much. See you soon.